---
title: by collaborative and decentralized grassroot solution mapping with volunteers
parent_order: 2
nav_order: 1
layout: default

signature_solutions : [Poverty & inequality, Resilience]
enablers: [Strategic innovation]
rblac_priorities: [Inclusive and Sustainable Growth,Equity and inclusion]
sdg: [10 Reduce Inequalities, 16 Peace Justice And Strong Institutions]

---
## Collaborative and decentralized grassroot solutions mapping with volunteers

#### What it does.
This solution mapping approach allows you to collect data about grassroots solutions in a collaborative and decentralized manner, with minimal cost and short work cycles. The data is gathered by volunteer mappers through semi-structured interviews and surveys. Volunteer mappers are supported through induction sessions on specific topics, such as what a grassroots solution is, how to handle recollection instruments, and how to conduct an interview. Once the data collection is completed, a collective intelligence exercise is carried out to enable the community mappers to share their experiences and findings.

#### Value proposition for the government/other partner. 
This collaborative and decentralized mapping approach, in which volunteers from the communities play a key role, allows governments and other partners to achieve contextualized mapping in different geographical locations simultaneously. Such contextualization helps, for example, to gather information on how communities re-signify public policies or other initiatives. Furthermore, the approach enables real-time scalability of the mapping project. Additionally, it empowers partners to gain a deeper insight into the various forms and manifestations that those solutions can take.

#### Why and when to use it. 
This approach proves most valuable when you need to map solutions from different places simultaneously, but you count with limited resources, since it relies on contributions from volunteer mappers. Moreover, it is a useful model when you want to carry out a solution mapping with broad territorial scale, but you have mobility restrictions, or do not have a budget for travelling. Additionally, the implementation of the tool will work best when you have resources and time available and the will to build spaces of support and interaction among all the stakeholders involved in the project. Experience in strategic alliance building is not a must, but it certainly is a factor that contributes to the success of implementing this approach.

#### Known issues and troubleshooting. 
If it is not possible to engage volunteers with knowledge of the local circumstances of the community where the solutions mapping is to take place, this tool may result in gathering incomplete or inaccurate data. Also, if the community is affected by severe limitations in connectivity, conducting a remote mapping may not be feasible.

#### Context. 
In early 2020, the Argentina Acceleration Lab (AccLab) received an award from UN Volunteers and commenced work on a blueprint about models of volunteering. Simultaneously, the impact of COVID-19 intensified, leading to a nationwide quarantine in the country. The economic consequences of this measure had a significant impact on society, especially in sectors affected by multiple vulnerabilities. Consequently, the AccLab focused on mapping community-based solutions for financial inclusion and socioeconomic recovery with the assistance of volunteers. The Lab was not alone in this mission; it collaborated with Territorios en Acción (TeA), a joint initiative comprising different academic and scientific institutions, and partnered with national universities across the country.

#### Cost to implement. 
You must consider a budget ranging from USD 9,000 to USD 14,000 to hire the team needed to implement the solution. Coordination costs may vary depending on the characteristics of your coordination partner. An academic or scientific organization might represent a more cost-efficient option, particularly if it is an ally with previous ties with your team. 

#### Time
The application of the model is cost-efficient and does not require extended periods of time. In the experience of the Lab, the mapping was done in two months.

#### People. 
To implement this solution mapping model, you will need a team with the following roles: 
- **Volunteers:** You need 1 volunteer for every 4 to 6 interviews you want carry out, as they are the ones that collect the information from direct sources. 
- **Facilitators:** You need 1 facilitator for every 2 to 4 volunteers, as they are who train volunteers on how to conduct the mapping.  
- **Project coordinator:** You need one person (an individual or organization) responsible for managing the project, coordinating the facilitators and volunteers, and reporting the results.  This person should work with facilitators and form a federal gender-equality group of volunteers, potential agents of change in their communities. The project coordinator should organize working subgroups. This space provides methodological technical assistance during the entire process. The coordination group holds meetings to monitor the solutions mapping progress, during which individual follow-up of each interviewer is reinforced to ensure compliance with the project’s objectives and deadlines.
- **Graphic designer:** You need one person (or agency) to manage the visual aspects of the project, such as design the training materials for the volunteers and the final report.

As an example, consider that one mapping reaching 40 interviewees can be done with 10 volunteers, supported by 8 facilitators and overseen by a project coordinator.

#### Focal point. 
[María Verónica Moreno](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/contributors/María%20Verónica%20Moreno.html)

#### Country, year, and language. 
Argentina, 2021, Spanish and English.

#### Resources. 
- Report (Spanish) - [Búsqueda compartida: mapeo de soluciones CoLaborativo. Inclusión financiera y recuperación económica](https://www.ar.undp.org/content/argentina/es/home/library/hiv_aids/MapeoColaborativo.html)
- Report (English) - [Shared search: CoLlaborative solutions mapping. Financial inclusion and economic recovery](https://www.ar.undp.org/content/argentina/es/home/library/hiv_aids/MapeoColaborativo.html)
- Blog (Spanish) - [Estrategias Co-Lab(orativas): las soluciones y los mapeos con otros](https://www.undp.org/es/argentina/blog/quienes-seran-los-plomeros-del-desarrollo)
- Blog (English) - [Co_Lab(orative) strategies: mapping solutions with others.](https://www.undp.org/es/argentina/blog/quienes-seran-los-plomeros-del-desarrollo)
