---
title: by training volunteers on participatory and analitical methodologies
parent_order: 2
nav_order: 3
layout: default

signature_solutions : [ Poverty & inequality, Governance, Resilience, Environment, Energy, Gender equality]
enablers: [ Strategic innovation, Digitalization]
rblac_priorities: [ Inclusive and Sustainable Growth, Equity and inclusion]
sdg: [17 Partnerships For The Goals]

---
 ## Volunteers’ training guide on participatory and analytical methodologies.

#### What it does. 
This guide allows you to build the capacities of volunteers for conducting solution mapping, exploring data sources, engaging in future scanning, and carrying out experimentation activities. These skills can be quickly implemented to address the needs of people in the field. 

#### Value proposition for the government/other partner. 
By using the volunteer's guide, social organizations and international cooperation can involve their members in activities that collectively address development challenges, document their learnings, and broaden the scope of their impact.  

#### Why and when to use it. 
This tool is valuable when organizations involve volunteers in the field, aiming to swiftly understand the needs of the people. Volunteers serve as the eyes and hands that facilitate rapid learning and action in response to those needs. 

#### Known issues and troubleshooting. 
It is not yet the best moment to make use of this tool if:
- the partner does not have the intention of addressing the problem through a collaborative approach with volunteers participating in field activities;  
- the partner does not plan to implement the solutions obtain from the field experiences;  
- the volunteers can’t commit to the full program’s length (including implementing the solution);  
- the is no need to explore alternative solutions, as there are proven efficient solutions for the problem being address;  
- there are no resources to facilitate the exchange of learnings.

#### Context. 
This tool came into existence through a partnership between UNDP and Centro de Voluntariado Guatemalteco (CVG). We recognized that volunteers had a unique opportunity to contribute to development due to their proximity to the conditions of people in need. Their eyes and hands on the ground provide an invaluable resource for mapping solutions, exploring information sources, anticipating futures, and experimenting with innovations. We discovered that the profound personal experiences and learnings from volunteers had untapped potential when integrated into collective learning experiences. Through this integration, we can build our understanding and explore possibilities for action.  

#### Cost to implement. 
You will need a budged around USD 15.000 to hire the team needed and to carry out the workshops. While the tool can be adapted to various conditions, having access to a venue, the capability to share visual materials, an internet connection, materials for co-designing, and provisions for participants, including food, can be beneficial. 

#### Time
You will need around four months to plan, carry out the workshops, process and communicate learnings. The work whops can range from as short as half a day when using specific sections of the volunteer guide to a full program extending over three months, which may include field visits. 

#### People. 
To use this tool, the following team members will be required:
- One facilitator familiar with the volunteer guide to conduct workshops.  
- One person responsible of coordinating logistics for gathering participants, securing a venue, and ensuring participant engagement. 

#### Focal point. 
[Javier Brolo](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/contributors/Javier%20Brolo.html)

#### Country, year, and language. 
Guatemala, 2022, Spanish 

#### Resources. 
- Manual (Spanish) [Contribuyendo a la Aceleración del Desarrollo Sostenible desde el Voluntariado](https://www.undp.org/es/guatemala/publicaciones/contribuyendo-la-aceleracion-del-desarrollo-sostenible-desde-el-voluntariado) 
