---
title: by mapping digital capacities for municipalities
parent_order: 7
nav_order: 2
layout: default

signature_solutions : [Governance]
enablers: [Digitalization]
rblac_priorities: [Effective Governance]
sdg: [16 Peace Justice And Strong Institutions]

---
## Mapping digital capacities of municipalities 

#### What it does. 
This tool enables you to identify municipalities that are well-prepared to adopt new technologies, including digital tools, online platforms, and software systems, as well as those categorized as early adopters, followers, and those lagging. The methodology involves assessing compliance with fundamental requirements for the successful implementation of new technologies through cluster analysis, using information collected from municipalities via an online survey. Decision-makers can then use the visualized results in a dashboard to implement various strategies aimed at enhancing digital transformation in municipalities based on their readiness.

#### Value proposition for the government/other partner. 
By assessing the readiness of municipalities to adopt new technology, the government will be able to develop effective digital strategies to enhance the success of implementation.

#### Why and when to use it. 
This tool is most useful when the government is in the initial stages of planning the implementation of new technology across a large group of institutions, such as municipalities. It offers the opportunity to create customized strategies for each identified group of municipalities based on their readiness levels to adopt new technology. Utilizing this methodology necessitates a comprehensive understanding that any significant improvement in the capabilities of municipalities through technology implementation requires an assessment of their current capabilities and the development of customized strategies to ensure genuine access and utilization of new technology, thus maximizing the benefits of its implementation.

#### Known issues and troubleshooting. 
It is better not to implement the initiative if: a) there is no full agreement from the representation of public institutions to participate in the survey; this will ensure full participation; 2) if the government does not have a designated team or other resources to implement the survey and analyze the results (for example, someone in the government team responsible for monitoring institutions for form completion, data cleaning, analysis, and dashboard design); 3) if there is no specific digital system or tool that can be implemented with differentiated strategies based on capabilities to apply the results of this exercise.

#### Context. 
The Bolivian Municipalities Associations Federation (FAM, abbreviated in Spanish) in collaboration with UNDP Country Office, had planned to implement a website tool aimed at providing detailed information to all municipalities to enhance their planning processes. Recognizing that the effective implementation of this tool depended on various requirements, including both technical prerequisites and the competencies of municipal staff, we realized that the tool might not yield the same benefits for all municipalities. There was a particular concern about its usage in rural areas. Consequently, we proposed an assessment of the capabilities of municipalities to tailor strategies accordingly.

As a result, FAM conducted survey with municipalities, followed by a cluster analysis. This analysis identified four distinct clusters, each representing different readiness levels. Factors considered included stable internet access, the availability of required computer equipment, the presence of staff with expertise in statistics, and their ability to utilize this information effectively in the planning processes.

#### Cost to implement. 
To implement this tool, you would need a budget of between USD 2.000 and USD 4.000, which will be used to hire a person to implement the methodology, which involves analyzing the results and designing the dashboard. 

#### Time
Gathering information from municipalities, analyzing it, and developing a dashboard will take 2 to 3 months, depending on the quantity of responses and the response time.

#### People. 
To implement this tool, the following team members will be needed:
- A person responsible for identifying the necessary information to collect from municipalities, designing the form, analyzing the gathered information, and designing the dashboard.
- A person responsible for distributing the forms to the municipalities and monitoring their progress.

#### Focal point. 
[Patricia A. Choque](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/contributors/Patricia%20Choque.html) 

#### Country, year, and language. 
Bolivia, 2023, Spanish

#### Resources. 
- Manual (Spanish)- [Nota de concepto]( https://github.com/UNDP-Accelerator-Labs/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/blob/86ef1995760a19cd0b4bc656d80bcba678637aaf/_tools_resources/BOL_DigitalMunicipalMap_Manual_1.docx)
- Manual (Spanish) – [Ficha técnica]( https://github.com/UNDP-Accelerator-Labs/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/blob/86ef1995760a19cd0b4bc656d80bcba678637aaf/_tools_resources/BOL_DigitalMunicipalMap_Manual_2.docx) 
- Blog (Spanish) – [Mapeo de capacidades digitales para el desarrollo municipal](https://www.undp.org/es/bolivia/blog/mapeo-de-capacidades-digitales-para-el-desarrollo-municipal)
- Dashboard (Spanish) – [Infografía mapeo de capacidades municipales para adoptar soluciones digitales](https://github.com/UNDP-Accelerator-Labs/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/blob/86ef1995760a19cd0b4bc656d80bcba678637aaf/_tools_resources/BOL_DigitalMunicipalMap_Dashboard_1.pdf)
