--- 
title: by through online and collaborative mapping of the national innovation ecosystem 
parent_order: 7 
nav_order: 5 
layout: default 
 
signature_solutions : [ Governance] 
enablers: [ Digitalization] 
rblac_priorities: [ Effective Governance] 
sdg: [16 Peace Justice And Strong Institutions, 17 Partnerships For The Goals] 
 
--- 
## Online and collaborative mapping of the national innovation ecosystem

#### What it does. 
This online collaborative mapping of the national innovation ecosystem (NIE) serves two main purposes. Firstly, it provides a tool for identifying and tracking actors involved in sustainable development issues with a social or public innovation approach, based on their geographical location. Secondly, it facilitates the strengthening of synergies among NIE actors by enabling them to learn about each other's work and explore potential collaborations based on shared interests. Additionally, this tool generates open data by collecting information about initiatives and actors.

#### Value proposition for the government/other partner. 
By having an online and collaborative mapping of the national innovation ecosystem, you will enable the community of such ecosystem to address social, cultural, environmental, and economic challenges efficiently and effectively, as they identify common interests, exchange experiences, tap on collective knowledge, collaborate, and create synergies. This tool contributes to SDG 17 “Partnerships for the goals” and target 17.7 “encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships”. 

#### Why and when to use it. 
This tool is most useful when there is an existing long-term strategy, either from the local or national innovation public sector, aimed at fostering trust among actors within the national innovation ecosystem and facilitating the development of a shared agenda focused on a specific SDG. Promoting collaborative work should involve utilizing participatory and co-creation methods, complemented by an effective communication strategy to engage actors effectively.

#### Known issues and troubleshooting. 
- If there are only a few well-known actors within the national innovation ecosystem, this tool may not be as effective since its purpose is to facilitate coordination and collaboration among a diverse group of actors. 
- Without a strategy to convene and promote collaborative work among actors in the innovation ecosystem, the online mapping tool alone may not be sufficient to foster synergies within the ecosystem. 
- Limited access to connectivity, low digital skills, and a scarcity of digital devices may render an online and collaborative mapping tool less suitable. 
- In the absence of a long-term vision and strategy for mapping collaborative initiatives, the data may quickly become outdated.

#### Context. 
As a member of the Open Government Partnership (OGP), Ecuador is committed to having a more open and participatory government. As part of the OGP Action Plan 2019-2022, it aimed to establish an Innovation Citizen Lab for the first time in the country. UNDP's Accelerator Lab played a key role by offering technical assistance in 2022 to design, implement, and operate the Citizen Lab called Thinkia. The Secretariat of Higher Education and Innovation of Ecuador leads this Lab and collaborates with seven other actors from academia (2), civil society organizations (2), other public institutions (2), and the cooperation sector (UNDP). The government employs a shared and decentralized governance model for Thinkia: Citizen Lab to include other actors as part of the management team and decision-making process. Additionally, the government uses an online platform as a mechanism to promote citizen engagement in public innovation work. UNDP's Accelerator Lab not only elaborated the governance model proposal and supported its implementation but also designed, developed, and transferred an online platform for Thinkia: Citizen Lab.

#### Cost to implement
USD 18,000 - 20,000

#### Time.
To design and develop an online platform 6 months are required. To transfer the e-tool to a government counterpart 4 moths are needed. To transfer the platform should be consider and plan from the design phase of it.

#### People.
To design, develop, and implement a similar tool the following team members will be required:
- A software development firm with experience in open code and collaborative platforms.
- An ally institution within the public innovation sector that aims to contribute to the NIE, and within that institution two focal points an IT person and program officer person.

#### Focal Point.
[Ana M. Grijalva] (https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/contributors/Ana%20M.%20Grijalva.html)

#### Country, year, and language. 
Ecuador, 2023, Spanish

#### Resources
- Access link (Spanish) – [Mapa del ecosistema de innovación nacional](https://devthinkia.hanansoft.com/iniciativasmapa)
- Manual (Spanish) – [Manual sobre como utilizar la herramienta de mapeo](https://devthinkia.hanansoft.com/sites/default/files/2023-04/01.%20Instructivo%20iniciativas.pdf)
- Access link (Spanish) – [Directorio de actores registrados en el ecosistema de innovación](https://devthinkia.hanansoft.com/iniciativas) 
- Dashboard (Spanish) – [Estadísticas de los actores e iniciativas registradas](https://devthinkia.hanansoft.com/analitica) 
