---
title: The toolkit at a glace
parent_order: 0
nav_order: 2
layout: default

---
# THE TOOLKIT AT A GLANCE 

**Getting started.** This section explains the rationale for the toolkit, and how to use it.

**Innovating to tackle poverty and inequality.** This section describes tools that tackle inequality of opportunities and enhance people’s capabilities to move above the poverty line.

**Innovating for gender equality.** This section describes tools that confront the structural obstacles to gender equality and strengthening women’s economic empowerment and leadership.

**Innovating for energy access and efficiency.** This section describes tools that aim to increase energy access and accelerating the transition to renewable energy.

**Innovating for environment.** This section describes tools that enables putting nature and the environment at the heart of national economies and planning; helping governments protect, manage and value their natural assets.

**Innovating for resilience.** This section describes tools that support countries and communities in building resilience to diverse shocks and crises, including conflict, climate change, disasters, and epidemics.

**Innovating for governance.** This section describes tools that help countries address emerging complexities by “future-proofing” governance systems through anticipatory approaches and better management of risk.

**Contributors.** This section enlists the contributors of the toolkit and provides their contact information for further inquiries in any of the tools. 

