---
title: How to use the toolkit
parent_order: 1
nav_order: 3
layout: default

---
# HOW TO USE THE TOOLKIT

### Architecture 

This toolkit compiles tested tools that have been proven to achieve sustainable development, as part of one of the six signature solutions of UNDP’s Strategic Plan 2022 – 2025. The tools are organized in six sections, one for each signature solutions. You can find a description of each section in the segment “The toolkit at a glance”. 

### How to use this toolkit in four easy steps

**1. Decide what you want to do and browse the catalogue.**
The tools in this kit are labelled according to function, with names like “Innovating to tackle poverty and inequality by digital inclusion through a network of nearby stores”. They are sorted into six main categories based on the UNDP’s signature solution they contribute to. The navigation bar and tag boxes on the left of the screen act as a catalog: browse them to navigate to any tool you like.

**2. Read the description from this website.**
Each tool’s website page contains information you can use to decide if that tool is helpful to you. Is it aligned with your goals? Is it compatible with the amount of time and money you have? 

**3. Read and reuse the resources.**
If the description of the tool looks interesting, you can move on to the resources itself. Because the tool was not written with your specific case in mind, you will need to adapt it to our context. Hopefully, this will be easier than starting from scratch. 

**4. Ask for support.**
All resources have a lead author, or “focal point”. The ethos of UNDP’s Accelerator Labs is one of sharing knowledge, so you can reach out to the focal point if you need more information and support. 

