---
title: Further Details
parent_order: 0
nav_order: 4
layout: default

---

# FURTHER DETAILS: TAGS & RESOURCES

### Tags

There are four main categories to tag tools: UNDP’s Strategic Plan signature solutions (1) and enablers (2), RBLAC priorities (3), and the Sustainable Development Goals (4) to which the tool contributes. Each tool in the toolkit is assigned to only one section of the six signature solutions. However, in practice, some of the solutions prototyped by the Accelerator Labs jointly address different dimensions of development. Therefore, this information is included through a list of tags at the end of the tool.

To use the tags, select the filters needed to explore the tools of your interest in any of the four tag boxes located at the end of the navigation bar on the left of the screen. Once the filters are selected, the main screen will show the list of tools that include the selected tags.

Please note that the tag boxes only display the categories included in at least one tool. Below is the complete list of categories that could be assigned for each tag.

- **Signature solutions tag:** Poverty and Inequality; Gender Equality; Energy; Environment; Resilience; Governance.  

- **Enablers tag:** Digitalization; Strategic Innovation; Development Financing. 

- **RBLAC priorities tag:** Inclusive and Sustainable Growth; Equity and Inclusion; Resilient Sustainable Development and Green Recovery; Effective Governance.

- **SGD tag:** 1 No poverty; 2 Zero hunger; 3 Good health and well-being; 4 Quality education;  5 Gender equality;  6 Clean water and sanitation; 7 Affordable and clean energy; 8 Decent work and economic growth; 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure; 10 Reduced inequalities; 12 Sustainable cities and communities; 12 Responsible consumption and production; 13 Climate action; 14 Life below water; 15 Life on land ; 16 Peace, justice, and strong institutions; 17 Partnerships for the goals.

### Resources

This toolkit compiles a set of tools and their resources to assist UNDP colleagues in delivering initiatives that support sustainable development. Below is a description of the types of resources found in the tools.

- Blog: An online article from RBLAC Labbers where they share their thoughts, expertise, and insights regarding the implementation of the tool.
- Report: A document presenting information about the process, methodology, results, and lessons learned from the design and execution of the tool.
- Slideshow: A document in presentation format summarizing key information about the implementation of the tool.
- Dashboard: A visual display of information, often presented in the form of charts, graphs, tables, and other visual elements, designed to provide users with a quick overview of key data relevant to the tool.
- ToR (Terms of Reference): A document describing the terms under which a contract is made for the acquisition required for the implementation of the tool.
- Manual: A document providing instructions, guidance, or information on how to perform a task, operate a system or device, or use a product, such as guides, concept notes, and data sheets.
- Templates: Pre-designed layouts or formats that serve as a starting point for implementing the tool, such as canvases for collaborative exercises.
- Access link: A web link or URL providing access to a specific resource, such as courses or apps developed as part of the tool.


### List of tools found in this toolkit. 

-	[Innovating to tackle poverty and inequality by collaborative and decentralized grassroot solution mapping with volunteers.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/1.Poverty/1.1%20VolunteerMapping.html)
-	[Innovating to tackle poverty and inequality by digital inclusion through a network of nearby stores.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/1.Poverty/1.2%20DigitalInclusionStores.html)
-	[Innovating to tackle poverty and inequality by training volunteers on participatory and analytical methodologies.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/1.Poverty/1.3%20VolunteersGuide.html)
-	[Innovating to tackle poverty and inequality through online user-center capacity building training.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/1.Poverty/1.4%20CapacitiesBuilding.html)
-	[Innovating for gender equality by using interactive and participatory discussions to change perspective.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/2.Gender/2.1%20ParticipatoryPerspective.html)
-	[Innovating for gender equality by building citizens’ digital security capacities.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/2.Gender/2.2%20DigSecurityMOOC.html)
-	[Innovating for gender equality trough startups’ accelerators.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/2.Gender/2.3%20AcceleratorFI.html)
-	[Innovating for environment through the co-creation and mapping of scientific solutions with citizens.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/4.Environment/4.1%20ScienceMap.html)
-	[Innovating for environment through a crowdsourced app for environmental monitoring.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/4.Environment/4.2%20EnviromentMonitoringApp.html)
-	[Innovating for environment by prioritizing environmental interventions through a dynamic map.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/4.Environment/4.3%20InterventionMap.html)
-	[Innovating for resilience by addressing local challenges through community systems thinking.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/5.Resilience/5.1%20CommunitySysThinking.html)
-	[Innovating for resilience through innovation opportunities workshop.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/5.Resilience/5.2%20InnovationWorkshop.html)
-	[Innovating for governance by using design thinking to design public products or services.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/6.Governance/6.1%20PublicServicesDT.html)
-	[Innovating for governance by mapping digital capacities for municipalities.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/6.Governance/6.2%20DigitalMunicipalMap.html)
-	[Innovating for governance by using Natural Language Processing Models for building consensus.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/6.Governance/6.3%20NLPForConsensus.html)
-	[Innovating for governance through a methodology for exploring signals of change.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/6.Governance/6.4%20ExploringMethology.html)
-	[Innovating for governance by online and collaborative mapping of the national innovation ecosystem.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/6.Governance/6.5.%20CollaborativeMapping.html)
-	[Innovating for governance by using a multistakeholder governance model for an innovation unit.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/6.Governance/6.6.%20GovModel.html)
-	[Innovating for governance through a MOOC on public and social innovation concepts and tools.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/6.Governance/6.7%20InnovationMOOC.html)
-	[Innovating for governance by using text mining algorithms to analyze public programs performance.](https://undp-accelerator-labs.github.io/Innovation-Toolkit-for-UNDP-Signature-Solutions/6.Governance/6.8%20TextMiningPerformance.html)
